.. There must be an alternative documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Sun Apr  7 20:45:34 2024.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

There must be an alternative
============================

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Contents:

Rationale
---------

Marget Thatcher once stated there was no alternative to Free Market
capitalism. However, some 40 years after the Thatcher rebellion and
the rise of neoliberalism, the world is faced with a
crisis. Neoliberalism capitalism has won, but in its victory a new
crisis has emerged, the climate crisis.

The climate crisis has arisen from the “externalities” of the global
fossil capitalist system. In other words, it is a crisis that is
directly related to how we organize our economy. Andreas Malm has
pointed out that what we are observing is the cumulative results of
burning fossil fuels for the last 200 years. In Fossil Capital, he
examines how fossil fuels have come to play an important role in the
development of capitalism. This project therefore takes our global
fossil fuel capitalist system as a starting point.

This project’s rationale is based on the need to find another way of
organizing our economy away from this global fossil fuel
capitalism. Our goal with this project is to explore both the
theoretical underpinnings and the practical methods for building an
alternative to our current economic mode and the fossil fuel based
system that underpins this economy.

We need to not just find another way of organizing our economy, but we
also need to provide a real working tool chain for modeling and
building that economy. The authors have noticed when socialists
movements are able to enact their economic plans, they often lack
methods and models for this transformation to socialism. This project
therefore walks a fine line between idealism or “utopianism” and a
practical application of socialist principles.

Goals
-----

The goal of this project is to build a working software and
documentation system that explains the key concepts of economic
planning. Rather than taking a purely theoretical approach, our
approach will be focused on practical planning for a series of
imagined communities. Starting from a small town, and scaling up to a
large city, our goal is to show how economic planning would work in a
“Socialist Commune”. Our starting point is not an already existing
socialist economy, but an capitalist society determined to move
towards a more sustainable future. Nothing in our project is outside
the realm of technical or economic possibility, even though it seems
politically unfeasible.


Inspiration
-----------

Most of this work is inspired by thinkers and history centered within
the capitalist world. This is a reflection partly of the basis of the
authors. But beyond that, this is a reflection of how our own history
is one of the successes of economic planning. Key to our story of
discovery of economic planning is the experience of the allied powers
in World War Two. To deny economic planning in the Western Capitalist
context is therefore to deny an important part of our own history and
the primary reason we don’t speak German right now.

This project is motivated by the writings of Stafford Beer and the
experience of the Chilean people under President Salvador Allende’s
Popular Front. The Chilean people’s struggle for a democratic path
towards socialism. Anyone understanding Beer’s relationship to that
political revolution should read Cybernetic Revolutionaries by Eden
Medina.

As Mrs Medina explains in her book, Allende’s socialist and democratic
revolution found common cause with many of the key ideas of
cybernetics. This project takes that history and those ideas as its
starting point and inspiration.

This project is also informed by the war planning experience in both
the United States and the United Kingdom during World War One and
World War Two. We explain these histories and planning methods from
these capitalist countries to highlight the fact that all countries
can and have planned their economies. There are numerous books on this
topic, but one of the more interesting is Lester R. Brown’s Plan B.

This project is further debited by the work of Paul Cockshott and
Allin F. Cottrell in their important 1993 book “Towards a new
Socialism” and their more recent book “Economic Planning in a time of
Climate Change”. The authors of this project would like to distance
themselves from Paul Cockshotts views on Gender.

Most critically, this project is focused on understanding economic
planning in real and existing socialist countries. This includes
understanding how the Soviet Union planned, how the People’s public of
China currently plans their economy. It also highlights the work of
Cuban people, their system and their commitment to building a green
economy.


Chile is our future
-------------------

Our departure point for understanding economic planning in a
democratic and mixed economic system is the experience of Chile from
1970 to 1973. This moment in history is connected deeply with the
history of our own economic system as the counter revolution post 1973
is the origin of our neo-liberal moment. It is critical therefore, to
understand the Chilean Democratic Socialist experiment.

Much has been written about the Cybernetics and Stadford Beer’s
involvement in this political revolution.


Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`
* :ref:`search`


.. bibliography:: refs.bib
